docs/recipe/deploy/update_code.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit recipe/deploy/update_code.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Update Code Recipe

```php
require 'recipe/deploy/update_code.php';
```

[Source](/recipe/deploy/update_code.php)


## Configuration
### branch
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L12)

Determines which branch to deploy. Can be overridden with CLI option `--branch`.
If not specified, will get current git HEAD branch as default branch to deploy.

```php title="Default value"
'HEAD'
```


### target
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L19)

The deploy target: a branch, a tag or a revision.
:::info Autogenerated
The value of this configuration is autogenerated on access.
:::




### update_code_strategy
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L48)

Sets deploy:update_code strategy.
Can be one of:
- archive
- clone (if you need the origin repository `.git` dir in your [release_path](/docs/recipe/deploy/release.md#release_path))

```php title="Default value"
'archive'
```


### git_ssh_command
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L54)

Sets environment variable _GIT_SSH_COMMAND_ for `git clone` command.
If `StrictHostKeyChecking` flag is set to `accept-new` then ssh will
automatically add new host keys to the user known hosts files, but
will not permit connections to hosts with changed host keys.

```php title="Default value"
'ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=accept-new'
```


### sub_directory
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L66)

Specifies a sub directory within the repository to deploy.
Works only when [`update_code_strategy`](#update_code_strategy) is set to `archive` (default).

Example:
 - set value to `src` if you want to deploy the folder that lives at `/src`.
 - set value to `src/api` if you want to deploy the folder that lives at `/src/api`.

Note: do not use a leading `/`!

```php title="Default value"
false
```



## Tasks

### deploy\:update_code {#deploy-update_code}
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L72)

Updates code.

Update code at [release_path](/docs/recipe/deploy/release.md#release_path) on host.

Commit message:

feat: add new `local_archive` update code strategy (#4017)
* feat: add new `local_archive` update code strategy

* chore: use upload function

docs/recipe/deploy/update_code.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit recipe/deploy/update_code.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Update Code Recipe

```php
require 'recipe/deploy/update_code.php';
```

[Source](/recipe/deploy/update_code.php)


## Configuration
### branch
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L12)

Determines which branch to deploy. Can be overridden with CLI option `--branch`.
If not specified, will get current git HEAD branch as default branch to deploy.

```php title="Default value"
'HEAD'
```


### target
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L19)

The deploy target: a branch, a tag or a revision.
:::info Autogenerated
The value of this configuration is autogenerated on access.
:::




### update_code_strategy
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L49)

Sets deploy:update_code strategy.
Can be one of:
- local_archive (copies the repository from local machine)
- archive (default, fetches the code from the remote repository)
- clone (if you need the origin repository `.git` dir in your [release_path](/docs/recipe/deploy/release.md#release_path), clones from remote repository)

```php title="Default value"
'archive'
```


### git_ssh_command
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L55)

Sets environment variable _GIT_SSH_COMMAND_ for `git clone` command.
If `StrictHostKeyChecking` flag is set to `accept-new` then ssh will
automatically add new host keys to the user known hosts files, but
will not permit connections to hosts with changed host keys.

```php title="Default value"
'ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=accept-new'
```


### sub_directory
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L67)

Specifies a sub directory within the repository to deploy.
Works only when [`update_code_strategy`](#update_code_strategy) is set to `archive` (default) or `local_archive`.

Example:
 - set value to `src` if you want to deploy the folder that lives at `/src`.
 - set value to `src/api` if you want to deploy the folder that lives at `/src/api`.

Note: do not use a leading `/`!

```php title="Default value"
false
```



## Tasks

### deploy\:update_code {#deploy-update_code}
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/update_code.php#L73)

Updates code.

Update code at [release_path](/docs/recipe/deploy/release.md#release_path) on host.
