docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit recipe/deploy/writable.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Writable Recipe

```php
require 'recipe/deploy/writable.php';
```

[Source](/recipe/deploy/writable.php)


## Configuration
### http_user
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L9)

Used to make a writable directory by a server.
Used in `chown` and `acl` modes of [writable_mode](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#writable_mode).
Attempts automatically to detect http user in process list.
:::info Autogenerated
The value of this configuration is autogenerated on access.
:::




### http_group
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L26)

Used to make a writable directory by a server.
Used in `chgrp` mode of [writable_mode](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#writable_mode) only.
Attempts automatically to detect http user in process list.
:::info Autogenerated
The value of this configuration is autogenerated on access.
:::




### writable_dirs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L41)

List of writable dirs.



### writable_mode
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L50)

One of:
- chown
- chgrp
- chmod
- acl
- sticky
- skip

```php title="Default value"
'acl'
```


### writable_use_sudo
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L53)

Using sudo in writable commands?

```php title="Default value"
false
```


### writable_recursive
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L56)

Use recursive mode (-R)?

```php title="Default value"
false
```


### writable_chmod_mode
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L59)

The chmod mode.

```php title="Default value"
'0755'
```



## Tasks

### deploy\:writable {#deploy-writable}
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L62)

Makes writable dirs.

Commit message:

Added `writable_acl_groups` option to acl mode in `deploy:writable` (#3957)
* Added `writable_acl_groups` option to acl mode in `deploy:writable`

* Added docs

docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit recipe/deploy/writable.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Writable Recipe

```php
require 'recipe/deploy/writable.php';
```

[Source](/recipe/deploy/writable.php)


## Configuration
### http_user
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L9)

Used to make a writable directory by a server.
Used in `chown` and `acl` modes of [writable_mode](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#writable_mode).
Attempts automatically to detect http user in process list.
:::info Autogenerated
The value of this configuration is autogenerated on access.
:::




### http_group
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L26)

Used to make a writable directory by a server.
Used in `chgrp` mode of [writable_mode](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#writable_mode) only.
Attempts automatically to detect http user in process list.
:::info Autogenerated
The value of this configuration is autogenerated on access.
:::




### writable_dirs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L41)

List of writable dirs.



### writable_mode
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L50)

One of:
- chown
- chgrp
- chmod
- acl
- sticky
- skip

```php title="Default value"
'acl'
```


### writable_use_sudo
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L53)

Using sudo in writable commands?

```php title="Default value"
false
```


### writable_recursive
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L56)

Use recursive mode (-R)?

```php title="Default value"
false
```


### writable_chmod_mode
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L59)

The chmod mode.

```php title="Default value"
'0755'
```


### writable_acl_groups
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L62)

List of additional groups to give write permission to.

```php title="Default value"
[]
```


## Tasks

### deploy\:writable {#deploy-writable}
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/deploy/writable.php#L65)

Makes writable dirs.
