docs/contrib/discord.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/discord.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Discord Recipe

```php
require 'contrib/discord.php';
```

[Source](/contrib/discord.php)



## Installing
Add hook on deploy:
```php
before('deploy', 'discord:notify');
```
## Configuration
- `discord_channel` – Discord channel ID, **required**
- `discord_token` – Discord channel token, **required**
- `discord_notify_text` – notification message template, markdown supported, default:
  ```markdown
  :&#8203;information_source: **{{user}}** is deploying branch `{{branch}}` to _{{target}}_
  ```
- `discord_success_text` – success template, default:
  ```markdown
  :&#8203;white_check_mark: Branch `{{branch}}` deployed to _{{target}}_ successfully
  ```
- `discord_failure_text` – failure template, default:
  ```markdown
  :&#8203;no_entry_sign: Branch `{{branch}}` has failed to deploy to _{{target}}_
## Usage
If you want to notify only about beginning of deployment add this line only:
```php
before('deploy', 'discord:notify');
```
If you want to notify about successful end of deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:success', 'discord:notify:success');
```
If you want to notify about failed deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:failed', 'discord:notify:failure');
```


## Configuration
### discord_webhook
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L54)



```php title="Default value"
return 'https://discordapp.com/api/webhooks/{{discord_channel}}/{{discord_token}}/slack';
```


### discord_notify_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L59)

Deploy messages

```php title="Default value"
return [
'text' => parse(':&#8203;information_source: **{{user}}** is deploying branch `{{branch}}` to _{{target}}_'),
];
```


### discord_success_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L64)



```php title="Default value"
return [
'text' => parse(':&#8203;white_check_mark: Branch `{{branch}}` deployed to _{{target}}_ successfully'),
];
```


### discord_failure_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L69)



```php title="Default value"
return [
'text' => parse(':&#8203;no_entry_sign: Branch `{{branch}}` has failed to deploy to _{{target}}_'),
];
```


### discord_message
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L76)

The message

```php title="Default value"
'discord_notify_text'
```



## Tasks

### discord_send_message
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L79)



Helpers


### discord:test
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L87)

Tests messages.

Tasks


### discord:notify
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L98)

Notifies Discord.




### discord:notify:success
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L106)

Notifies Discord about deploy finish.




### discord:notify:failure
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L114)

Notifies Discord about deploy failure.

Commit message:

Add new config options: {{what}} and {{where}}

docs/contrib/discord.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/discord.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Discord Recipe

```php
require 'contrib/discord.php';
```

[Source](/contrib/discord.php)



## Installing
Add hook on deploy:
```php
before('deploy', 'discord:notify');
```
## Configuration
- `discord_channel` – Discord channel ID, **required**
- `discord_token` – Discord channel token, **required**
- `discord_notify_text` – notification message template, markdown supported, default:
  ```markdown
  :&#8203;information_source: **{{user}}** is deploying branch `{{branch}}` to _{{where}}_
  ```
- `discord_success_text` – success template, default:
  ```markdown
  :&#8203;white_check_mark: Branch `{{branch}}` deployed to _{{where}}_ successfully
  ```
- `discord_failure_text` – failure template, default:
  ```markdown
  :&#8203;no_entry_sign: Branch `{{branch}}` has failed to deploy to _{{where}}_
## Usage
If you want to notify only about beginning of deployment add this line only:
```php
before('deploy', 'discord:notify');
```
If you want to notify about successful end of deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:success', 'discord:notify:success');
```
If you want to notify about failed deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:failed', 'discord:notify:failure');
```


## Configuration
### discord_webhook
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L54)



```php title="Default value"
return 'https://discordapp.com/api/webhooks/{{discord_channel}}/{{discord_token}}/slack';
```


### discord_notify_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L59)

Deploy messages

```php title="Default value"
return [
'text' => parse(':&#8203;information_source: **{{user}}** is deploying branch `{{what}}` to _{{where}}_'),
];
```


### discord_success_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L64)



```php title="Default value"
return [
'text' => parse(':&#8203;white_check_mark: Branch `{{what}}` deployed to _{{where}}_ successfully'),
];
```


### discord_failure_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L69)



```php title="Default value"
return [
'text' => parse(':&#8203;no_entry_sign: Branch `{{what}}` has failed to deploy to _{{where}}_'),
];
```


### discord_message
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L76)

The message

```php title="Default value"
'discord_notify_text'
```



## Tasks

### discord_send_message
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L79)



Helpers


### discord:test
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L87)

Tests messages.

Tasks


### discord:notify
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L98)

Notifies Discord.




### discord:notify:success
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L106)

Notifies Discord about deploy finish.




### discord:notify:failure
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/discord.php#L114)

Notifies Discord about deploy failure.
