docs/contrib/ntfy.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/ntfy.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Ntfy Recipe

```php
require 'contrib/ntfy.php';
```

[Source](/contrib/ntfy.php)



## Installing
Require ntfy.sh recipe in your `deploy.php` file:
Setup:
1. Setup deploy.php
    Add in header:
```php
require 'contrib/ntfy.php';
set('ntfy_topic', 'ntfy.sh/mytopic');
```
Add in content:
```php
before('deploy', 'ntfy:notify');
after('deploy:success', 'ntfy:notify:success');
after('deploy:failed', 'ntfy:notify:failure');
```
9.) Sip your coffee
## Configuration
- `ntfy_server` – ntfy server url, default `ntfy.sh`
  ```
  set('ntfy_server', 'ntfy.sh');
  ```
- `ntfy_topic` – ntfy topic, **required**
  ```
  set('ntfy_topic', 'mysecrettopic');
  ```
- `ntfy_title` – the title of the message, default `{{application}}`
- `ntfy_text` – notification message template
  ```
  set('ntfy_text', '_{{user}}_ deploying `{{branch}}` to *{{target}}*');
  ```
- `ntfy_tags` – notification message tags / emojis (comma separated)
  ```
  set('ntfy_tags', `information_source`);
  ```
- `ntfy_priority` – notification message priority (integer)
  ```
  set('ntfy_priority', 5);
  ```
- `ntfy_success_text` – success template, default:
  ```
  set('ntfy_success_text', 'Deploy to *{{target}}* successful');
  ```
- `ntfy_success_tags` – success tags / emojis (comma separated)
  ```
  set('ntfy_success_tags', `white_check_mark,champagne`);
  ```
- `ntfy_success_priority` – success notification message priority
- `ntfy_failure_text` – failure template, default:
  ```
  set('ntfy_failure_text', 'Deploy to *{{target}}* failed');
  ```
- `ntfy_failure_tags` – failure tags / emojis (comma separated)
  ```
  set('ntfy_failure_tags', `warning,skull`);
  ```
- `ntfy_failure_priority` – failure notification message priority
## Usage
If you want to notify only about beginning of deployment add this line only:
```php
before('deploy', 'ntfy:notify');
```
If you want to notify about successful end of deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:success', 'ntfy:notify:success');
```
If you want to notify about failed deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:failed', 'ntfy:notify:failure');
```


## Configuration
### ntfy_server
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L90)



```php title="Default value"
'ntfy.sh'
```


### ntfy_title
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L93)

Title of project

```php title="Default value"
return get('application', 'Project');
```


### ntfy_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L98)

Deploy message

```php title="Default value"
'_{{user}}_ deploying `{{branch}}` to *{{target}}*'
```


### ntfy_success_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L99)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{target}}* successful'
```


### ntfy_failure_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L100)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{target}}* failed'
```


### ntfy_tags
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L103)

Message tags



### ntfy_success_tags
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L104)





### ntfy_failure_tags
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L105)






## Tasks

### ntfy:notify
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L108)

Notifies ntfy server.




### ntfy:notify:success
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L126)

Notifies ntfy server about deploy finish.




### ntfy:notify:failure
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L144)

Notifies ntfy server about deploy failure.

Commit message:

Add new config options: {{what}} and {{where}}

docs/contrib/ntfy.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/ntfy.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Ntfy Recipe

```php
require 'contrib/ntfy.php';
```

[Source](/contrib/ntfy.php)



## Installing
Require ntfy.sh recipe in your `deploy.php` file:
Setup:
1. Setup deploy.php
    Add in header:
```php
require 'contrib/ntfy.php';
set('ntfy_topic', 'ntfy.sh/mytopic');
```
Add in content:
```php
before('deploy', 'ntfy:notify');
after('deploy:success', 'ntfy:notify:success');
after('deploy:failed', 'ntfy:notify:failure');
```
9.) Sip your coffee
## Configuration
- `ntfy_server` – ntfy server url, default `ntfy.sh`
  ```
  set('ntfy_server', 'ntfy.sh');
  ```
- `ntfy_topic` – ntfy topic, **required**
  ```
  set('ntfy_topic', 'mysecrettopic');
  ```
- `ntfy_title` – the title of the message, default `{{application}}`
- `ntfy_text` – notification message template
  ```
  set('ntfy_text', '_{{user}}_ deploying `{{what}}` to *{{where}}*');
  ```
- `ntfy_tags` – notification message tags / emojis (comma separated)
  ```
  set('ntfy_tags', `information_source`);
  ```
- `ntfy_priority` – notification message priority (integer)
  ```
  set('ntfy_priority', 5);
  ```
- `ntfy_success_text` – success template, default:
  ```
  set('ntfy_success_text', 'Deploy to *{{where}}* successful');
  ```
- `ntfy_success_tags` – success tags / emojis (comma separated)
  ```
  set('ntfy_success_tags', `white_check_mark,champagne`);
  ```
- `ntfy_success_priority` – success notification message priority
- `ntfy_failure_text` – failure template, default:
  ```
  set('ntfy_failure_text', 'Deploy to *{{where}}* failed');
  ```
- `ntfy_failure_tags` – failure tags / emojis (comma separated)
  ```
  set('ntfy_failure_tags', `warning,skull`);
  ```
- `ntfy_failure_priority` – failure notification message priority
## Usage
If you want to notify only about beginning of deployment add this line only:
```php
before('deploy', 'ntfy:notify');
```
If you want to notify about successful end of deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:success', 'ntfy:notify:success');
```
If you want to notify about failed deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:failed', 'ntfy:notify:failure');
```


## Configuration
### ntfy_server
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L90)



```php title="Default value"
'ntfy.sh'
```


### ntfy_title
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L93)

Title of project

```php title="Default value"
return get('application', 'Project');
```


### ntfy_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L98)

Deploy message

```php title="Default value"
'_{{user}}_ deploying `{{what}}` to *{{where}}*'
```


### ntfy_success_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L99)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{where}}* successful'
```


### ntfy_failure_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L100)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{where}}* failed'
```


### ntfy_tags
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L103)

Message tags



### ntfy_success_tags
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L104)





### ntfy_failure_tags
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L105)






## Tasks

### ntfy:notify
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L108)

Notifies ntfy server.




### ntfy:notify:success
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L126)

Notifies ntfy server about deploy finish.




### ntfy:notify:failure
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/ntfy.php#L144)

Notifies ntfy server about deploy failure.
