<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/sentry.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# sentry

[Source](/contrib/sentry.php)



### Installing

```php
deploy.php

require 'contrib/sentry.php';
```

### Configuration options

- **organization** *(required)*: the slug of the organization the release belongs to.
- **projects** *(required)*: array of slugs of the projects to create a release for.
- **token** *(required)*: authentication token. Can be created at [https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/]
- **version** *(required)* – a version identifier for this release.
Can be a version number, a commit hash etc. (Defaults is set to git log -n 1 --format="%h".)
- **version_prefix** *(optional)* - a string prefixed to version.
Releases are global per organization so indipentent projects needs to prefix version number with unique string to avoid conflicts
- **environment** *(optional)* - the environment you’re deploying to. By default framework's environment is used.
For example for symfony, *symfony_env* configuration is read otherwise defaults to 'prod'.
- **ref** *(optional)* – an optional commit reference. This is useful if a tagged version has been provided.
- **refs** *(optional)* - array to indicate the start and end commits for each repository included in a release.
Head commits must include parameters *repository* and *commit*) (the HEAD sha).
They can optionally include *previousCommit* (the sha of the HEAD of the previous release),
which should be specified if this is the first time you’ve sent commit data.
- **commits** *(optional)* - array commits data to be associated with the release.
Commits must include parameters *id* (the sha of the commit), and can optionally include *repository*,
*message*, *author_name*, *author_email* and *timestamp*. By default will send all new commits,
unless it's a first release, then only first 200 will be sent.
- **url** *(optional)* – a URL that points to the release. This can be the path to an online interface to the sourcecode for instance.
- **date_released** *(optional)* – date that indicates when the release went live. If not provided the current time is assumed.
- **sentry_server** *(optional)* – sentry server (if you host it yourself). defaults to hosted sentry service.
- **date_deploy_started** *(optional)* - date that indicates when the deploy started. Defaults to current time.
- **date_deploy_finished** *(optional)* - date that indicates when the deploy ended. If not provided, the current time is used.
- **deploy_name** *(optional)* - name of the deploy
- **git_version_command** *(optional)* - the command that retrieves the git version information (Defaults is set to git log -n 1 --format="%h", other options are git describe --tags --abbrev=0)

```php
deploy.php

set('sentry', [
    'organization' => 'exampleorg',
    'projects' => [
        'exampleproj'
    ],
    'token' => 'd47828...',
    'version' => '0.0.1',

]);
```

### Suggested Usage

Since you should only notify Sentry of a successful deployment, the deploy:sentry task should be executed right at the end.

```php
deploy.php

after('deploy', 'deploy:sentry');
```




