docs/contrib/slack.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/slack.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Slack Recipe

```php
require 'contrib/slack.php';
```

[Source](/contrib/slack.php)



## Installing
<a href="https://slack.com/oauth/authorize?&client_id=113734341365.225973502034&scope=incoming-webhook"><img alt="Add to Slack" height="40" width="139" src="https://platform.slack-edge.com/img/add_to_slack.png" srcset="https://platform.slack-edge.com/img/add_to_slack.png 1x, https://platform.slack-edge.com/img/add_to_slack@2x.png 2x" /></a>
Add hook on deploy:
```php
before('deploy', 'slack:notify');
```
## Configuration
- `slack_webhook` – slack incoming webhook url, **required**
  ```
  set('slack_webhook', 'https://hooks.slack.com/...');
  ```
- `slack_channel` - channel to send notification to. The default is the channel configured in the webhook
- `slack_title` – the title of application, default `{{application}}`
- `slack_text` – notification message template, markdown supported
  ```
  set('slack_text', '_{{user}}_ deploying `{{branch}}` to *{{target}}*');
  ```
- `slack_success_text` – success template, default:
  ```
  set('slack_success_text', 'Deploy to *{{target}}* successful');
  ```
- `slack_failure_text` – failure template, default:
  ```
  set('slack_failure_text', 'Deploy to *{{target}}* failed');
  ```
- `slack_color` – color's attachment
- `slack_success_color` – success color's attachment
- `slack_failure_color` – failure color's attachment
- `slack_fields` - set attachments fields for pretty output in Slack, default:
  ```
  set('slack_fields', []);
  ```
## Usage
If you want to notify only about beginning of deployment add this line only:
```php
before('deploy', 'slack:notify');
```
If you want to notify about successful end of deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:success', 'slack:notify:success');
```
If you want to notify about failed deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:failed', 'slack:notify:failure');
```


## Configuration
### slack_channel
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L70)

Channel to publish to, when false the default channel the webhook will be used

```php title="Default value"
false
```


### slack_title
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L73)

Title of project

```php title="Default value"
return get('application', 'Project');
```


### slack_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L78)

Deploy message

```php title="Default value"
'_{{user}}_ deploying `{{target}}` to *{{hostname}}*'
```


### slack_success_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L79)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{target}}* successful'
```


### slack_failure_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L80)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{target}}* failed'
```


### slack_rollback_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L81)



```php title="Default value"
'_{{user}}_ rolled back changes on *{{target}}*'
```


### slack_fields
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L82)





### slack_color
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L85)

Color of attachment

```php title="Default value"
'#4d91f7'
```


### slack_success_color
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L86)



```php title="Default value"
'#00c100'
```


### slack_failure_color
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L87)



```php title="Default value"
'#ff0909'
```


### slack_rollback_color
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L88)



```php title="Default value"
'#eba211'
```



## Tasks

### slack:notify
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L100)

Notifies Slack.




### slack:notify:success
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L120)

Notifies Slack about deploy finish.




### slack:notify:failure
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L141)

Notifies Slack about deploy failure.




### slack:notify:rollback
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L161)

Notifies Slack about rollback.

Commit message:

Add new config options: {{what}} and {{where}}

docs/contrib/slack.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/slack.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Slack Recipe

```php
require 'contrib/slack.php';
```

[Source](/contrib/slack.php)



## Installing
<a href="https://slack.com/oauth/authorize?&client_id=113734341365.225973502034&scope=incoming-webhook"><img alt="Add to Slack" height="40" width="139" src="https://platform.slack-edge.com/img/add_to_slack.png" srcset="https://platform.slack-edge.com/img/add_to_slack.png 1x, https://platform.slack-edge.com/img/add_to_slack@2x.png 2x" /></a>
Add hook on deploy:
```php
before('deploy', 'slack:notify');
```
## Configuration
- `slack_webhook` – slack incoming webhook url, **required**
  ```
  set('slack_webhook', 'https://hooks.slack.com/...');
  ```
- `slack_channel` - channel to send notification to. The default is the channel configured in the webhook
- `slack_title` – the title of application, default `{{application}}`
- `slack_text` – notification message template, markdown supported
  ```
  set('slack_text', '_{{user}}_ deploying `{{what}}` to *{{where}}*');
  ```
- `slack_success_text` – success template, default:
  ```
  set('slack_success_text', 'Deploy to *{{where}}* successful');
  ```
- `slack_failure_text` – failure template, default:
  ```
  set('slack_failure_text', 'Deploy to *{{where}}* failed');
  ```
- `slack_color` – color's attachment
- `slack_success_color` – success color's attachment
- `slack_failure_color` – failure color's attachment
- `slack_fields` - set attachments fields for pretty output in Slack, default:
  ```
  set('slack_fields', []);
  ```
## Usage
If you want to notify only about beginning of deployment add this line only:
```php
before('deploy', 'slack:notify');
```
If you want to notify about successful end of deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:success', 'slack:notify:success');
```
If you want to notify about failed deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:failed', 'slack:notify:failure');
```


## Configuration
### slack_channel
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L70)

Channel to publish to, when false the default channel the webhook will be used

```php title="Default value"
false
```


### slack_title
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L73)

Title of project

```php title="Default value"
return get('application', 'Project');
```


### slack_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L78)

Deploy message

```php title="Default value"
'_{{user}}_ deploying `{{what}}` to *{{where}}*'
```


### slack_success_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L79)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{where}}* successful'
```


### slack_failure_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L80)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{where}}* failed'
```


### slack_rollback_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L81)



```php title="Default value"
'_{{user}}_ rolled back changes on *{{where}}*'
```


### slack_fields
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L82)





### slack_color
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L85)

Color of attachment

```php title="Default value"
'#4d91f7'
```


### slack_success_color
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L86)



```php title="Default value"
'#00c100'
```


### slack_failure_color
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L87)



```php title="Default value"
'#ff0909'
```


### slack_rollback_color
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L88)



```php title="Default value"
'#eba211'
```



## Tasks

### slack:notify
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L100)

Notifies Slack.




### slack:notify:success
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L120)

Notifies Slack about deploy finish.




### slack:notify:failure
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L141)

Notifies Slack about deploy failure.




### slack:notify:rollback
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/slack.php#L161)

Notifies Slack about rollback.
