docs/contrib/telegram.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/telegram.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Telegram Recipe

```php
require 'contrib/telegram.php';
```

[Source](/contrib/telegram.php)



## Installing
  1. Create telegram bot with [BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather) and grab the token provided
  2. Send `/start` to your bot and open https://api.telegram.org/bot{$TELEGRAM_TOKEN_HERE}/getUpdates
  3. Take chat_id from response
Add hook on deploy:
```php
before('deploy', 'telegram:notify');
```
## Configuration
- `telegram_token` – telegram bot token, **required**
- `telegram_chat_id` — chat ID to push messages to
- `telegram_proxy` - proxy connection string in [CURLOPT_PROXY](https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/CURLOPT_PROXY.html) form like:
  ```
  http://proxy:80
  socks5://user:password@host:3128
   ```
- `telegram_title` – the title of application, default `{{application}}`
- `telegram_text` – notification message template
  ```
  _{{user}}_ deploying `{{branch}}` to *{{target}}*
  ```
- `telegram_success_text` – success template, default:
  ```
  Deploy to *{{target}}* successful
  ```
- `telegram_failure_text` – failure template, default:
  ```
  Deploy to *{{target}}* failed
  ```
## Usage
If you want to notify only about beginning of deployment add this line only:
```php
before('deploy', 'telegram:notify');
```
If you want to notify about successful end of deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:success', 'telegram:notify:success');
```
If you want to notify about failed deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:failed', 'telegram:notify:failure');


## Configuration
### telegram_title
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L65)

Title of project

```php title="Default value"
return get('application', 'Project');
```


### telegram_token
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L70)

Telegram settings
:::info Required
Throws exception if not set.
:::




### telegram_chat_id
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L73)


:::info Required
Throws exception if not set.
:::




### telegram_url
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L76)



```php title="Default value"
return 'https://api.telegram.org/bot' . get('telegram_token') . '/sendmessage';
```


### telegram_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L81)

Deploy message

```php title="Default value"
'_{{user}}_ deploying `{{branch}}` to *{{target}}*'
```


### telegram_success_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L82)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{target}}* successful'
```


### telegram_failure_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L83)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{target}}* failed'
```



## Tasks

### telegram:notify
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L87)

Notifies Telegram.




### telegram:notify:success
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L118)

Notifies Telegram about deploy finish.




### telegram:notify:failure
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L149)

Notifies Telegram about deploy failure.

Commit message:

Add new config options: {{what}} and {{where}}

docs/contrib/telegram.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/telegram.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Telegram Recipe

```php
require 'contrib/telegram.php';
```

[Source](/contrib/telegram.php)



## Installing
  1. Create telegram bot with [BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather) and grab the token provided
  2. Send `/start` to your bot and open https://api.telegram.org/bot{$TELEGRAM_TOKEN_HERE}/getUpdates
  3. Take chat_id from response
Add hook on deploy:
```php
before('deploy', 'telegram:notify');
```
## Configuration
- `telegram_token` – telegram bot token, **required**
- `telegram_chat_id` — chat ID to push messages to
- `telegram_proxy` - proxy connection string in [CURLOPT_PROXY](https://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/CURLOPT_PROXY.html) form like:
  ```
  http://proxy:80
  socks5://user:password@host:3128
   ```
- `telegram_title` – the title of application, default `{{application}}`
- `telegram_text` – notification message template
  ```
  _{{user}}_ deploying `{{what}}` to *{{where}}*
  ```
- `telegram_success_text` – success template, default:
  ```
  Deploy to *{{where}}* successful
  ```
- `telegram_failure_text` – failure template, default:
  ```
  Deploy to *{{where}}* failed
  ```
## Usage
If you want to notify only about beginning of deployment add this line only:
```php
before('deploy', 'telegram:notify');
```
If you want to notify about successful end of deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:success', 'telegram:notify:success');
```
If you want to notify about failed deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:failed', 'telegram:notify:failure');


## Configuration
### telegram_title
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L65)

Title of project

```php title="Default value"
return get('application', 'Project');
```


### telegram_token
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L70)

Telegram settings
:::info Required
Throws exception if not set.
:::




### telegram_chat_id
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L73)


:::info Required
Throws exception if not set.
:::




### telegram_url
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L76)



```php title="Default value"
return 'https://api.telegram.org/bot' . get('telegram_token') . '/sendmessage';
```


### telegram_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L81)

Deploy message

```php title="Default value"
'_{{user}}_ deploying `{{what}}` to *{{where}}*'
```


### telegram_success_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L82)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{where}}* successful'
```


### telegram_failure_text
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L83)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to *{{where}}* failed'
```



## Tasks

### telegram:notify
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L87)

Notifies Telegram.




### telegram:notify:success
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L118)

Notifies Telegram about deploy finish.




### telegram:notify:failure
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/telegram.php#L149)

Notifies Telegram about deploy failure.
