docs/contrib/yammer.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/yammer.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Yammer Recipe

```php
require 'contrib/yammer.php';
```

[Source](/contrib/yammer.php)



Add hook on deploy:
```php
before('deploy', 'yammer:notify');
```
## Configuration
- `yammer_url` – The URL to the message endpoint, default is https://www.yammer.com/api/v1/messages.json
- `yammer_token` *(required)* – Yammer auth token
- `yammer_group_id` *(required)* - Group ID
- `yammer_title` – the title of application, default `{{application}}`
- `yammer_body` – notification message template, default:
  ```
  <em>{{user}}</em> deploying {{branch}} to <strong>{{target}}</strong>
  ```
- `yammer_success_body` – success template, default:
  ```
  Deploy to <strong>{{target}}</strong> successful
  ```
- `yammer_failure_body` – failure template, default:
  ```
  Deploy to <strong>{{target}}</strong> failed
  ```
## Usage
If you want to notify only about beginning of deployment add this line only:
```php
before('deploy', 'yammer:notify');
```
If you want to notify about successful end of deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:success', 'yammer:notify:success');
```
If you want to notify about failed deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:failed', 'yammer:notify:failure');
```


## Configuration
### yammer_url
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L55)



```php title="Default value"
'https://www.yammer.com/api/v1/messages.json'
```


### yammer_title
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L58)

Title of project

```php title="Default value"
return get('application', 'Project');
```


### yammer_body
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L63)

Deploy message

```php title="Default value"
'<em>{{user}}</em> deploying {{branch}} to <strong>{{target}}</strong>'
```


### yammer_success_body
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L64)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to <strong>{{target}}</strong> successful'
```


### yammer_failure_body
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L65)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to <strong>{{target}}</strong> failed'
```



## Tasks

### yammer:notify
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L68)

Notifies Yammer.




### yammer:notify:success
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L87)

Notifies Yammer about deploy finish.




### yammer:notify:failure
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L106)

Notifies Yammer about deploy failure.

Commit message:

Add new config options: {{what}} and {{where}}

docs/contrib/yammer.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit contrib/yammer.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# Yammer Recipe

```php
require 'contrib/yammer.php';
```

[Source](/contrib/yammer.php)



Add hook on deploy:
```php
before('deploy', 'yammer:notify');
```
## Configuration
- `yammer_url` – The URL to the message endpoint, default is https://www.yammer.com/api/v1/messages.json
- `yammer_token` *(required)* – Yammer auth token
- `yammer_group_id` *(required)* - Group ID
- `yammer_title` – the title of application, default `{{application}}`
- `yammer_body` – notification message template, default:
  ```
  <em>{{user}}</em> deploying {{what}} to <strong>{{where}}</strong>
  ```
- `yammer_success_body` – success template, default:
  ```
  Deploy to <strong>{{where}}</strong> successful
  ```
- `yammer_failure_body` – failure template, default:
  ```
  Deploy to <strong>{{where}}</strong> failed
  ```
## Usage
If you want to notify only about beginning of deployment add this line only:
```php
before('deploy', 'yammer:notify');
```
If you want to notify about successful end of deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:success', 'yammer:notify:success');
```
If you want to notify about failed deployment add this too:
```php
after('deploy:failed', 'yammer:notify:failure');
```


## Configuration
### yammer_url
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L55)



```php title="Default value"
'https://www.yammer.com/api/v1/messages.json'
```


### yammer_title
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L58)

Title of project

```php title="Default value"
return get('application', 'Project');
```


### yammer_body
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L63)

Deploy message

```php title="Default value"
'<em>{{user}}</em> deploying {{what}} to <strong>{{where}}</strong>'
```


### yammer_success_body
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L64)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to <strong>{{where}}</strong> successful'
```


### yammer_failure_body
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L65)



```php title="Default value"
'Deploy to <strong>{{where}}</strong> failed'
```



## Tasks

### yammer:notify
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L68)

Notifies Yammer.




### yammer:notify:success
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L87)

Notifies Yammer about deploy finish.




### yammer:notify:failure
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/contrib/yammer.php#L106)

Notifies Yammer about deploy failure.
