docs/recipe/laravel.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit recipe/laravel.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# How to Deploy a Laravel Project

```php
require 'recipe/laravel.php';
```

[Source](/recipe/laravel.php)

Deployer is a free and open source deployment tool written in PHP. 
It helps you to deploy your Laravel application to a server. 
It is very easy to use and has a lot of features. 

Three main features of Deployer are:
- **Provisioning** - provision your server for you.
- **Zero downtime deployment** - deploy your application without a downtime.
- **Rollbacks** - rollback your application to a previous version, if something goes wrong.

Additionally, Deployer has a lot of other features, like:
- **Easy to use** - Deployer is very easy to use. It has a simple and intuitive syntax.
- **Fast** - Deployer is very fast. It uses parallel connections to deploy your application.
- **Secure** - Deployer uses SSH to connect to your server.
- **Supports all major PHP frameworks** - Deployer supports all major PHP frameworks.

You can read more about Deployer in [Getting Started](/docs/getting-started.md).

The [deploy](#deploy) task of **Laravel** consists of:
* [deploy:prepare](/docs/recipe/common.md#deployprepare) – Prepares a new release
  * [deploy:info](/docs/recipe/deploy/info.md#deployinfo) – Displays info about deployment
  * [deploy:setup](/docs/recipe/deploy/setup.md#deploysetup) – Prepares host for deploy
  * [deploy:lock](/docs/recipe/deploy/lock.md#deploylock) – Locks deploy
  * [deploy:release](/docs/recipe/deploy/release.md#deployrelease) – Prepares release
  * [deploy:update_code](/docs/recipe/deploy/update_code.md#deployupdate_code) – Updates code
  * [deploy:shared](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#deployshared) – Creates symlinks for shared files and dirs
  * [deploy:writable](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#deploywritable) – Makes writable dirs
* [deploy:vendors](/docs/recipe/deploy/vendors.md#deployvendors) – Installs vendors
* [artisan:storage:link](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanstoragelink) – Creates the symbolic links configured for the application
* [artisan:config:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanconfigcache) – Creates a cache file for faster configuration loading
* [artisan:route:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanroutecache) – Creates a route cache file for faster route registration
* [artisan:view:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanviewcache) – Compiles all of the application\'s Blade templates
* [artisan:event:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisaneventcache) – Discovers and cache the application\'s events and listeners
* [artisan:migrate](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanmigrate) – Runs the database migrations
* [deploy:publish](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploypublish) – Publishes the release
  * [deploy:symlink](/docs/recipe/deploy/symlink.md#deploysymlink) – Creates symlink to release
  * [deploy:unlock](/docs/recipe/deploy/lock.md#deployunlock) – Unlocks deploy
  * [deploy:cleanup](/docs/recipe/deploy/cleanup.md#deploycleanup) – Cleanup old releases
  * [deploy:success](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploysuccess) – 


The laravel recipe is based on the [common](/docs/recipe/common.md) recipe.

## Configuration
### shared_dirs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L8)

Overrides [shared_dirs](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#shared_dirs) from `recipe/deploy/shared.php`.



```php title="Default value"
['storage']
```


### shared_files
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L9)

Overrides [shared_files](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#shared_files) from `recipe/deploy/shared.php`.



```php title="Default value"
['.env']
```


### writable_dirs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L10)

Overrides [writable_dirs](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#writable_dirs) from `recipe/deploy/writable.php`.



```php title="Default value"
[
    'bootstrap/cache',
    'storage',
    'storage/app',
    'storage/app/public',
    'storage/framework',
    'storage/framework/cache',
    'storage/framework/cache/data',
    'storage/framework/sessions',
    'storage/framework/views',
    'storage/logs',
]
```


### log_files
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L22)



```php title="Default value"
'storage/logs/*.log'
```


### laravel_version
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L23)



```php title="Default value"
$result = run('{{bin/php}} {{release_or_current_path}}/artisan --version');
preg_match_all('/(\d+\.?)+/', $result, $matches);
return $matches[0][0] ?? 5.5;
```



## Tasks

### artisan:down
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L90)

Puts the application into maintenance / demo mode.




### artisan:up
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L93)

Brings the application out of maintenance mode.




### artisan:&#8203;key:generate
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L100)

Sets the application key.




### artisan:passport:keys
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L103)

Creates the encryption keys for API authentication.




### artisan:db:seed
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L110)

Seeds the database with records.




### artisan:migrate
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L113)

Runs the database migrations.




### artisan:migrate:fresh
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L116)

Drops all tables and re-run all migrations.




### artisan:migrate:rollback
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L119)

Rollbacks the last database migration.




### artisan:migrate:status
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L122)

Shows the status of each migration.




### artisan:cache:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L129)

Flushes the application cache.




### artisan:config:cache
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L132)

Creates a cache file for faster configuration loading.




### artisan:config:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L135)

Removes the configuration cache file.




### artisan:event:cache
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L138)

Discovers and cache the application\'s events and listeners.




### artisan:event:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L141)

Clears all cached events and listeners.




### artisan:event:list
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L144)

Lists the application\'s events and listeners.




### artisan:optimize
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L147)

Cache the framework bootstrap files.




### artisan:optimize:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L150)

Removes the cached bootstrap files.




### artisan:route:cache
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L153)

Creates a route cache file for faster route registration.




### artisan:route:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L156)

Removes the route cache file.




### artisan:route:list
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L159)

Lists all registered routes.




### artisan:storage:link
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L162)

Creates the symbolic links configured for the application.




### artisan:view:cache
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L165)

Compiles all of the application\'s Blade templates.




### artisan:view:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L168)

Clears all compiled view files.




### artisan:queue:failed
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L175)

Lists all of the failed queue jobs.




### artisan:queue:flush
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L178)

Flushes all of the failed queue jobs.




### artisan:queue:restart
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L181)

Restarts queue worker daemons after their current job.




### artisan:horizon
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L184)

Starts a master supervisor in the foreground.




### artisan:horizon:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L187)

Deletes all of the jobs from the specified queue.




### artisan:horizon:continue
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L190)

Instructs the master supervisor to continue processing jobs.




### artisan:horizon:list
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L193)

Lists all of the deployed machines.




### artisan:horizon:pause
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L196)

Pauses the master supervisor.




### artisan:horizon:purge
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L199)

Terminates any rogue Horizon processes.




### artisan:horizon:status
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L202)

Gets the current status of Horizon.




### artisan:horizon:terminate
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L205)

Terminates the master supervisor so it can be restarted.




### artisan:horizon:publish
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L208)

Publish all of the Horizon resources.




### artisan:&#8203;telescope:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L215)

Clears all entries from Telescope.




### artisan:&#8203;telescope:prune
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L218)

Prunes stale entries from the Telescope database.




### artisan:octane
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L225)

Starts the octane server.




### artisan:octane:reload
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L228)

Reloads the octane server.




### artisan:octane:stop
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L231)

Stops the octane server.




### artisan:octane:status
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L234)

Check the status of the octane server.




### deploy
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L240)

Deploys your project.

Main deploy task.


This task is group task which contains next tasks:
* [deploy:prepare](/docs/recipe/common.md#deployprepare)
* [deploy:vendors](/docs/recipe/deploy/vendors.md#deployvendors)
* [artisan:storage:link](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanstoragelink)
* [artisan:config:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanconfigcache)
* [artisan:route:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanroutecache)
* [artisan:view:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanviewcache)
* [artisan:event:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisaneventcache)
* [artisan:migrate](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanmigrate)
* [deploy:publish](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploypublish)

Commit message:

Add Laravel Nova task to recipe/laravel (#3548)
* Add Laravel Nova task to recipe/laravel

* Update docs

docs/recipe/laravel.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit recipe/laravel.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# How to Deploy a Laravel Project

```php
require 'recipe/laravel.php';
```

[Source](/recipe/laravel.php)

Deployer is a free and open source deployment tool written in PHP. 
It helps you to deploy your Laravel application to a server. 
It is very easy to use and has a lot of features. 

Three main features of Deployer are:
- **Provisioning** - provision your server for you.
- **Zero downtime deployment** - deploy your application without a downtime.
- **Rollbacks** - rollback your application to a previous version, if something goes wrong.

Additionally, Deployer has a lot of other features, like:
- **Easy to use** - Deployer is very easy to use. It has a simple and intuitive syntax.
- **Fast** - Deployer is very fast. It uses parallel connections to deploy your application.
- **Secure** - Deployer uses SSH to connect to your server.
- **Supports all major PHP frameworks** - Deployer supports all major PHP frameworks.

You can read more about Deployer in [Getting Started](/docs/getting-started.md).

The [deploy](#deploy) task of **Laravel** consists of:
* [deploy:prepare](/docs/recipe/common.md#deployprepare) – Prepares a new release
  * [deploy:info](/docs/recipe/deploy/info.md#deployinfo) – Displays info about deployment
  * [deploy:setup](/docs/recipe/deploy/setup.md#deploysetup) – Prepares host for deploy
  * [deploy:lock](/docs/recipe/deploy/lock.md#deploylock) – Locks deploy
  * [deploy:release](/docs/recipe/deploy/release.md#deployrelease) – Prepares release
  * [deploy:update_code](/docs/recipe/deploy/update_code.md#deployupdate_code) – Updates code
  * [deploy:shared](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#deployshared) – Creates symlinks for shared files and dirs
  * [deploy:writable](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#deploywritable) – Makes writable dirs
* [deploy:vendors](/docs/recipe/deploy/vendors.md#deployvendors) – Installs vendors
* [artisan:storage:link](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanstoragelink) – Creates the symbolic links configured for the application
* [artisan:config:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanconfigcache) – Creates a cache file for faster configuration loading
* [artisan:route:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanroutecache) – Creates a route cache file for faster route registration
* [artisan:view:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanviewcache) – Compiles all of the application\'s Blade templates
* [artisan:event:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisaneventcache) – Discovers and cache the application\'s events and listeners
* [artisan:migrate](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanmigrate) – Runs the database migrations
* [deploy:publish](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploypublish) – Publishes the release
  * [deploy:symlink](/docs/recipe/deploy/symlink.md#deploysymlink) – Creates symlink to release
  * [deploy:unlock](/docs/recipe/deploy/lock.md#deployunlock) – Unlocks deploy
  * [deploy:cleanup](/docs/recipe/deploy/cleanup.md#deploycleanup) – Cleanup old releases
  * [deploy:success](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploysuccess) – 


The laravel recipe is based on the [common](/docs/recipe/common.md) recipe.

## Configuration
### shared_dirs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L8)

Overrides [shared_dirs](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#shared_dirs) from `recipe/deploy/shared.php`.



```php title="Default value"
['storage']
```


### shared_files
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L9)

Overrides [shared_files](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#shared_files) from `recipe/deploy/shared.php`.



```php title="Default value"
['.env']
```


### writable_dirs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L10)

Overrides [writable_dirs](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#writable_dirs) from `recipe/deploy/writable.php`.



```php title="Default value"
[
    'bootstrap/cache',
    'storage',
    'storage/app',
    'storage/app/public',
    'storage/framework',
    'storage/framework/cache',
    'storage/framework/cache/data',
    'storage/framework/sessions',
    'storage/framework/views',
    'storage/logs',
]
```


### log_files
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L22)



```php title="Default value"
'storage/logs/*.log'
```


### laravel_version
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L23)



```php title="Default value"
$result = run('{{bin/php}} {{release_or_current_path}}/artisan --version');
preg_match_all('/(\d+\.?)+/', $result, $matches);
return $matches[0][0] ?? 5.5;
```



## Tasks

### artisan:down
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L90)

Puts the application into maintenance / demo mode.




### artisan:up
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L93)

Brings the application out of maintenance mode.




### artisan:&#8203;key:generate
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L100)

Sets the application key.




### artisan:passport:keys
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L103)

Creates the encryption keys for API authentication.




### artisan:db:seed
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L110)

Seeds the database with records.




### artisan:migrate
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L113)

Runs the database migrations.




### artisan:migrate:fresh
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L116)

Drops all tables and re-run all migrations.




### artisan:migrate:rollback
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L119)

Rollbacks the last database migration.




### artisan:migrate:status
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L122)

Shows the status of each migration.




### artisan:cache:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L129)

Flushes the application cache.




### artisan:config:cache
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L132)

Creates a cache file for faster configuration loading.




### artisan:config:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L135)

Removes the configuration cache file.




### artisan:event:cache
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L138)

Discovers and cache the application\'s events and listeners.




### artisan:event:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L141)

Clears all cached events and listeners.




### artisan:event:list
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L144)

Lists the application\'s events and listeners.




### artisan:optimize
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L147)

Cache the framework bootstrap files.




### artisan:optimize:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L150)

Removes the cached bootstrap files.




### artisan:route:cache
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L153)

Creates a route cache file for faster route registration.




### artisan:route:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L156)

Removes the route cache file.




### artisan:route:list
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L159)

Lists all registered routes.




### artisan:storage:link
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L162)

Creates the symbolic links configured for the application.




### artisan:view:cache
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L165)

Compiles all of the application\'s Blade templates.




### artisan:view:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L168)

Clears all compiled view files.




### artisan:queue:failed
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L175)

Lists all of the failed queue jobs.




### artisan:queue:flush
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L178)

Flushes all of the failed queue jobs.




### artisan:queue:restart
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L181)

Restarts queue worker daemons after their current job.




### artisan:horizon
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L184)

Starts a master supervisor in the foreground.




### artisan:horizon:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L187)

Deletes all of the jobs from the specified queue.




### artisan:horizon:continue
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L190)

Instructs the master supervisor to continue processing jobs.




### artisan:horizon:list
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L193)

Lists all of the deployed machines.




### artisan:horizon:pause
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L196)

Pauses the master supervisor.




### artisan:horizon:purge
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L199)

Terminates any rogue Horizon processes.




### artisan:horizon:status
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L202)

Gets the current status of Horizon.




### artisan:horizon:terminate
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L205)

Terminates the master supervisor so it can be restarted.




### artisan:horizon:publish
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L208)

Publish all of the Horizon resources.




### artisan:&#8203;telescope:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L215)

Clears all entries from Telescope.




### artisan:&#8203;telescope:prune
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L218)

Prunes stale entries from the Telescope database.




### artisan:octane
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L225)

Starts the octane server.




### artisan:octane:reload
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L228)

Reloads the octane server.




### artisan:octane:stop
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L231)

Stops the octane server.




### artisan:octane:status
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L234)

Check the status of the octane server.




### artisan:nova:publish
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L241)

Publish all of the Laravel Nova resources.




### deploy
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/laravel.php#L247)

Deploys your project.

Main deploy task.


This task is group task which contains next tasks:
* [deploy:prepare](/docs/recipe/common.md#deployprepare)
* [deploy:vendors](/docs/recipe/deploy/vendors.md#deployvendors)
* [artisan:storage:link](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanstoragelink)
* [artisan:config:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanconfigcache)
* [artisan:route:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanroutecache)
* [artisan:view:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanviewcache)
* [artisan:event:cache](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisaneventcache)
* [artisan:migrate](/docs/recipe/laravel.md#artisanmigrate)
* [deploy:publish](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploypublish)
