docs/recipe/magento2.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit recipe/magento2.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# How to Deploy a Magento 2 Project

```php
require 'recipe/magento2.php';
```

[Source](/recipe/magento2.php)

Deployer is a free and open source deployment tool written in PHP. 
It helps you to deploy your Magento 2 application to a server. 
It is very easy to use and has a lot of features. 

Three main features of Deployer are:
- **Provisioning** - provision your server for you.
- **Zero downtime deployment** - deploy your application without a downtime.
- **Rollbacks** - rollback your application to a previous version, if something goes wrong.

Additionally, Deployer has a lot of other features, like:
- **Easy to use** - Deployer is very easy to use. It has a simple and intuitive syntax.
- **Fast** - Deployer is very fast. It uses parallel connections to deploy your application.
- **Secure** - Deployer uses SSH to connect to your server.
- **Supports all major PHP frameworks** - Deployer supports all major PHP frameworks.

You can read more about Deployer in [Getting Started](/docs/getting-started.md).

The [deploy](#deploy) task of **Magento 2** consists of:
* [deploy:prepare](/docs/recipe/common.md#deployprepare) – Prepares a new release
  * [deploy:info](/docs/recipe/deploy/info.md#deployinfo) – Displays info about deployment
  * [deploy:setup](/docs/recipe/deploy/setup.md#deploysetup) – Prepares host for deploy
  * [deploy:lock](/docs/recipe/deploy/lock.md#deploylock) – Locks deploy
  * [deploy:release](/docs/recipe/deploy/release.md#deployrelease) – Prepares release
  * [deploy:update_code](/docs/recipe/deploy/update_code.md#deployupdate_code) – Updates code
  * [deploy:shared](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#deployshared) – Creates symlinks for shared files and dirs
  * [deploy:writable](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#deploywritable) – Makes writable dirs
* [deploy:vendors](/docs/recipe/deploy/vendors.md#deployvendors) – Installs vendors
* [deploy:clear_paths](/docs/recipe/deploy/clear_paths.md#deployclear_paths) – Cleanup files and/or directories
* [deploy:magento](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#deploymagento) – Magento2 deployment operations
  * [magento:build](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentobuild) – Magento2 build operations
    * [magento:compile](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentocompile) – Compiles magento di
    * [magento:deploy:assets](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentodeployassets) – Deploys assets
  * [magento:config:import](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentoconfigimport) – Config Import
  * [magento:upgrade:db](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentoupgradedb) – Upgrades magento database
  * [magento:cache:flush](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentocacheflush) – Flushes Magento Cache
* [deploy:publish](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploypublish) – Publishes the release
  * [deploy:symlink](/docs/recipe/deploy/symlink.md#deploysymlink) – Creates symlink to release
  * [deploy:unlock](/docs/recipe/deploy/lock.md#deployunlock) – Unlocks deploy
  * [deploy:cleanup](/docs/recipe/deploy/cleanup.md#deploycleanup) – Cleanup old releases
  * [deploy:success](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploysuccess) – 


The magento2 recipe is based on the [common](/docs/recipe/common.md) recipe.

## Configuration
### static_content_locales
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L20)

By default setup:static-content:deploy uses `en_US`.
To change that, simply put `set('static_content_locales', 'en_US de_DE');`
in you deployer script.

```php title="Default value"
'en_US'
```


### magento_themes
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L26)

You can also set the themes to run against. By default it'll deploy
all themes - `add('magento_themes', ['Magento/luma', 'Magento/backend']);`

```php title="Default value"
[

]
```


### static_content_jobs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L34)

Also set the number of conccurent jobs to run. The default is 1
Update using: `set('static_content_jobs', '1');`

```php title="Default value"
'1'
```


### content_version
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L36)



```php title="Default value"
return time();
```


### shared_files
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L40)

Overrides [shared_files](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#shared_files) from `recipe/deploy/shared.php`.



```php title="Default value"
[
    'app/etc/env.php',
    'var/.maintenance.ip',
]
```


### shared_dirs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L44)

Overrides [shared_dirs](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#shared_dirs) from `recipe/deploy/shared.php`.



```php title="Default value"
[
    'var/composer_home',
    'var/log',
    'var/export',
    'var/report',
    'var/import',
    'var/import_history',
    'var/session',
    'var/importexport',
    'var/backups',
    'var/tmp',
    'pub/sitemap',
    'pub/media'
]
```


### writable_dirs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L58)

Overrides [writable_dirs](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#writable_dirs) from `recipe/deploy/writable.php`.



```php title="Default value"
[
    'var',
    'pub/static',
    'pub/media',
    'generated',
    'var/page_cache'
]
```


### clear_paths
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L65)

Overrides [clear_paths](/docs/recipe/deploy/clear_paths.md#clear_paths) from `recipe/deploy/clear_paths.php`.



```php title="Default value"
[
    'generated/*',
    'pub/static/_cache/*',
    'var/generation/*',
    'var/cache/*',
    'var/page_cache/*',
    'var/view_preprocessed/*'
]
```


### magento_version
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L74)



```php title="Default value"
// detect version
$versionOutput = run('{{bin/php}} {{release_or_current_path}}/bin/magento --version');
preg_match('/(\d+\.?)+(-p\d+)?$/', $versionOutput, $matches);
return $matches[0] ?? '2.0';
```


### maintenance_mode_status_active
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L81)



```php title="Default value"
// detect maintenance mode active
$maintenanceModeStatusOutput = run("{{bin/php}} {{release_or_current_path}}/bin/magento maintenance:status");
return strpos($maintenanceModeStatusOutput, MAINTENANCE_MODE_ACTIVE_OUTPUT_MSG) !== false;
```


### enable_zerodowntime
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L88)

Deploy without setting maintenance mode if possible

```php title="Default value"
true
```



## Tasks

### magento:compile
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L92)

Compiles magento di.

Tasks


### magento:deploy:assets
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L99)

Deploys assets.




### magento:sync:content_version
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L112)

Syncs content version.




### magento:maintenance:enable
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L122)

Enables maintenance mode.




### magento:maintenance:disable
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L127)

Disables maintenance mode.




### magento:config:import
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L132)

Config Import.




### magento:upgrade:db
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L167)

Upgrades magento database.




### magento:set_cache_prefix
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L198)

Update cache id_prefix.

Update cache ip_prefix on deploy so that your are compiling against a fresh cache
Reference Issue: https://github.com/davidalger/capistrano-magento2/issues/151


### magento:cache:flush
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L225)

Flushes Magento Cache.




### deploy:magento
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L230)

Magento2 deployment operations.




This task is group task which contains next tasks:
* [magento:build](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentobuild)
* [magento:config:import](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentoconfigimport)
* [magento:upgrade:db](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentoupgradedb)
* [magento:cache:flush](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentocacheflush)


### magento:build
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L238)

Magento2 build operations.




This task is group task which contains next tasks:
* [magento:compile](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentocompile)
* [magento:deploy:assets](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentodeployassets)


### deploy
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L244)

Deploys your project.




This task is group task which contains next tasks:
* [deploy:prepare](/docs/recipe/common.md#deployprepare)
* [deploy:vendors](/docs/recipe/deploy/vendors.md#deployvendors)
* [deploy:clear_paths](/docs/recipe/deploy/clear_paths.md#deployclear_paths)
* [deploy:magento](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#deploymagento)
* [deploy:publish](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploypublish)

Commit message:

DD#0000: feat: Updated code so that config updates persist
between each deployment

docs/recipe/magento2.md, after:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit recipe/magento2.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# How to Deploy a Magento 2 Project

```php
require 'recipe/magento2.php';
```

[Source](/recipe/magento2.php)

Deployer is a free and open source deployment tool written in PHP. 
It helps you to deploy your Magento 2 application to a server. 
It is very easy to use and has a lot of features. 

Three main features of Deployer are:
- **Provisioning** - provision your server for you.
- **Zero downtime deployment** - deploy your application without a downtime.
- **Rollbacks** - rollback your application to a previous version, if something goes wrong.

Additionally, Deployer has a lot of other features, like:
- **Easy to use** - Deployer is very easy to use. It has a simple and intuitive syntax.
- **Fast** - Deployer is very fast. It uses parallel connections to deploy your application.
- **Secure** - Deployer uses SSH to connect to your server.
- **Supports all major PHP frameworks** - Deployer supports all major PHP frameworks.

You can read more about Deployer in [Getting Started](/docs/getting-started.md).

The [deploy](#deploy) task of **Magento 2** consists of:
* [deploy:prepare](/docs/recipe/common.md#deployprepare) – Prepares a new release
  * [deploy:info](/docs/recipe/deploy/info.md#deployinfo) – Displays info about deployment
  * [deploy:setup](/docs/recipe/deploy/setup.md#deploysetup) – Prepares host for deploy
  * [deploy:lock](/docs/recipe/deploy/lock.md#deploylock) – Locks deploy
  * [deploy:release](/docs/recipe/deploy/release.md#deployrelease) – Prepares release
  * [deploy:update_code](/docs/recipe/deploy/update_code.md#deployupdate_code) – Updates code
  * [deploy:shared](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#deployshared) – Creates symlinks for shared files and dirs
  * [deploy:writable](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#deploywritable) – Makes writable dirs
* [deploy:vendors](/docs/recipe/deploy/vendors.md#deployvendors) – Installs vendors
* [deploy:clear_paths](/docs/recipe/deploy/clear_paths.md#deployclear_paths) – Cleanup files and/or directories
* [deploy:magento](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#deploymagento) – Magento2 deployment operations
  * [magento:build](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentobuild) – Magento2 build operations
    * [magento:compile](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentocompile) – Compiles magento di
    * [magento:deploy:assets](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentodeployassets) – Deploys assets
  * [magento:config:import](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentoconfigimport) – Config Import
  * [magento:upgrade:db](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentoupgradedb) – Upgrades magento database
  * [magento:cache:flush](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentocacheflush) – Flushes Magento Cache
* [deploy:publish](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploypublish) – Publishes the release
  * [deploy:symlink](/docs/recipe/deploy/symlink.md#deploysymlink) – Creates symlink to release
  * [deploy:unlock](/docs/recipe/deploy/lock.md#deployunlock) – Unlocks deploy
  * [deploy:cleanup](/docs/recipe/deploy/cleanup.md#deploycleanup) – Cleanup old releases
  * [deploy:success](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploysuccess) – 


The magento2 recipe is based on the [common](/docs/recipe/common.md) recipe.

## Configuration
### static_content_locales
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L20)

By default setup:static-content:deploy uses `en_US`.
To change that, simply put `set('static_content_locales', 'en_US de_DE');`
in you deployer script.

```php title="Default value"
'en_US'
```


### magento_themes
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L26)

You can also set the themes to run against. By default it'll deploy
all themes - `add('magento_themes', ['Magento/luma', 'Magento/backend']);`

```php title="Default value"
[

]
```


### static_content_jobs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L34)

Also set the number of conccurent jobs to run. The default is 1
Update using: `set('static_content_jobs', '1');`

```php title="Default value"
'1'
```


### content_version
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L36)



```php title="Default value"
return time();
```


### shared_files
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L40)

Overrides [shared_files](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#shared_files) from `recipe/deploy/shared.php`.



```php title="Default value"
[
    'app/etc/env.php',
    'var/.maintenance.ip',
]
```


### shared_dirs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L44)

Overrides [shared_dirs](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#shared_dirs) from `recipe/deploy/shared.php`.



```php title="Default value"
[
    'var/composer_home',
    'var/log',
    'var/export',
    'var/report',
    'var/import',
    'var/import_history',
    'var/session',
    'var/importexport',
    'var/backups',
    'var/tmp',
    'pub/sitemap',
    'pub/media'
]
```


### writable_dirs
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L58)

Overrides [writable_dirs](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#writable_dirs) from `recipe/deploy/writable.php`.



```php title="Default value"
[
    'var',
    'pub/static',
    'pub/media',
    'generated',
    'var/page_cache'
]
```


### clear_paths
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L65)

Overrides [clear_paths](/docs/recipe/deploy/clear_paths.md#clear_paths) from `recipe/deploy/clear_paths.php`.



```php title="Default value"
[
    'generated/*',
    'pub/static/_cache/*',
    'var/generation/*',
    'var/cache/*',
    'var/page_cache/*',
    'var/view_preprocessed/*'
]
```


### magento_version
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L74)



```php title="Default value"
// detect version
$versionOutput = run('{{bin/php}} {{release_or_current_path}}/bin/magento --version');
preg_match('/(\d+\.?)+(-p\d+)?$/', $versionOutput, $matches);
return $matches[0] ?? '2.0';
```


### maintenance_mode_status_active
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L81)



```php title="Default value"
// detect maintenance mode active
$maintenanceModeStatusOutput = run("{{bin/php}} {{release_or_current_path}}/bin/magento maintenance:status");
return strpos($maintenanceModeStatusOutput, MAINTENANCE_MODE_ACTIVE_OUTPUT_MSG) !== false;
```


### enable_zerodowntime
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L88)

Deploy without setting maintenance mode if possible

```php title="Default value"
true
```



## Tasks

### magento:compile
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L92)

Compiles magento di.

Tasks


### magento:deploy:assets
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L99)

Deploys assets.




### magento:sync:content_version
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L112)

Syncs content version.




### magento:maintenance:enable
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L122)

Enables maintenance mode.




### magento:maintenance:disable
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L127)

Disables maintenance mode.




### magento:config:import
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L132)

Config Import.




### magento:upgrade:db
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L167)

Upgrades magento database.




### magento:set_cache_prefix
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L199)

Update cache id_prefix.

Update cache ip_prefix on deploy so that you are compiling against a fresh cache
Reference Issue: https://github.com/davidalger/capistrano-magento2/issues/151


### magento:cleanup_cache_prefix
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L241)

Cleanup cache id_prefix env files.

After successful deployment, move the tmp_env.php file to env.php ready for next deployment


### magento:cache:flush
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L255)

Flushes Magento Cache.




### deploy:magento
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L260)

Magento2 deployment operations.




This task is group task which contains next tasks:
* [magento:build](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentobuild)
* [magento:config:import](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentoconfigimport)
* [magento:upgrade:db](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentoupgradedb)
* [magento:cache:flush](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentocacheflush)


### magento:build
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L268)

Magento2 build operations.




This task is group task which contains next tasks:
* [magento:compile](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentocompile)
* [magento:deploy:assets](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#magentodeployassets)


### deploy
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/magento2.php#L274)

Deploys your project.




This task is group task which contains next tasks:
* [deploy:prepare](/docs/recipe/common.md#deployprepare)
* [deploy:vendors](/docs/recipe/deploy/vendors.md#deployvendors)
* [deploy:clear_paths](/docs/recipe/deploy/clear_paths.md#deployclear_paths)
* [deploy:magento](/docs/recipe/magento2.md#deploymagento)
* [deploy:publish](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploypublish)
