<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit recipe/pimcore.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# How to Deploy a Pimcore Project

```php
require 'recipe/pimcore.php';
```

[Source](/recipe/pimcore.php)

Deployer is a free and open source deployment tool written in PHP. 
It helps you to deploy your Pimcore application to a server. 
It is very easy to use and has a lot of features. 

Three main features of Deployer are:
- **Provisioning** - provision your server for you.
- **Zero downtime deployment** - deploy your application without a downtime.
- **Rollbacks** - rollback your application to a previous version, if something goes wrong.

Additionally, Deployer has a lot of other features, like:
- **Easy to use** - Deployer is very easy to use. It has a simple and intuitive syntax.
- **Fast** - Deployer is very fast. It uses parallel connections to deploy your application.
- **Secure** - Deployer uses SSH to connect to your server.
- **Supports all major PHP frameworks** - Deployer supports all major PHP frameworks.

You can read more about Deployer in [Getting Started](/docs/getting-started.md).

The [deploy](#deploy) task of **Pimcore** consists of:
* [deploy:prepare](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploy-prepare) – Prepares a new release
  * [deploy:info](/docs/recipe/deploy/info.md#deploy-info) – Displays info about deployment
  * [deploy:setup](/docs/recipe/deploy/setup.md#deploy-setup) – Prepares host for deploy
  * [deploy:lock](/docs/recipe/deploy/lock.md#deploy-lock) – Locks deploy
  * [deploy:release](/docs/recipe/deploy/release.md#deploy-release) – Prepares release
  * [deploy:update_code](/docs/recipe/deploy/update_code.md#deploy-update_code) – Updates code
  * [deploy:env](/docs/recipe/symfony.md#deploy-env) – Optimize environment variables
  * [deploy:shared](/docs/recipe/deploy/shared.md#deploy-shared) – Creates symlinks for shared files and dirs
  * [deploy:writable](/docs/recipe/deploy/writable.md#deploy-writable) – Makes writable dirs
* [deploy:vendors](/docs/recipe/deploy/vendors.md#deploy-vendors) – Installs vendors
* [deploy:cache:clear](/docs/recipe/symfony.md#deploy-cache-clear) – Clears cache
* [deploy:publish](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploy-publish) – Publishes the release
  * [deploy:symlink](/docs/recipe/deploy/symlink.md#deploy-symlink) – Creates symlink to release
  * [deploy:unlock](/docs/recipe/deploy/lock.md#deploy-unlock) – Unlocks deploy
  * [deploy:cleanup](/docs/recipe/deploy/cleanup.md#deploy-cleanup) – Cleanup old releases
  * [deploy:success](/docs/recipe/common.md#deploy-success) – Deploys your project


The pimcore recipe is based on the [symfony](/docs/recipe/symfony.md) recipe.


## Tasks

### pimcore:rebuild-classes {#pimcore-rebuild-classes}
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/pimcore.php#L16)

Rebuilds Pimcore Classes.




### pimcore:cache_clear {#pimcore-cache_clear}
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/pimcore.php#L21)

Removes cache.




### pimcore:deploy {#pimcore-deploy}
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/pimcore.php#L25)






This task is group task which contains next tasks:
* [pimcore:rebuild-classes](/docs/recipe/pimcore.md#pimcore-rebuild-classes)
* [pimcore:cache_clear](/docs/recipe/pimcore.md#pimcore-cache_clear)


