<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! -->
<!-- Instead edit recipe/sulu.php -->
<!-- Then run bin/docgen -->

# How to Deploy Sulu

[Source](/recipe/sulu.php)

## How to deploy a Sulu project with zero downtime?

- First, [install](/docs/installation.md) the Deployer. 
- Second, require `recipe/sulu.php` recipe into your _deploy.php_ or _deploy.yaml_ file.
- Third, now you can have a zero downtime deployment!

Did you know that you can deploy **Sulu** project with a single command? Just execute `dep deploy`.
Something went wrong? Just run `dep rollback` to rollback your changes.
Also, you can take an advantage of the [Deployer's CLI](/docs/cli.md) to deploy your project.

Another cool feature of the Deployer is [provisioning](/docs/recipe/provision.md). Take any server, and run `dep provision` command.
This command will configure webserver, databases, php, https, and more. 
You will get everything you need to run your **Sulu** project.

Deployer does next steps to [deploy](#deploy) **Sulu**:
* Displays info about deployment
* Prepares host for deploy
* Locks deploy
* Prepares release
* Updates code
* Creates symlinks for shared files and dirs
* Makes writable dirs
* Installs vendors
* Clears cache
* Creates symlink to release
* Unlocks deploy
* Cleanup old releases


The sulu recipe is based on the [symfony](/docs/recipe/symfony.md) recipe.

## Configuration
### bin/websiteconsole
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/sulu.php#L12)






## Tasks

### phpcr:migrate
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/sulu.php#L17)

Migrates PHPCR.




### deploy:website:cache:clear
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/sulu.php#L22)

Clears cache.




### deploy:website:cache:warmup
[Source](https://github.com/deployphp/deployer/blob/master/recipe/sulu.php#L27)

Warmups cache.




