docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

In this tutorial we will cover:

- Setting up a new host with provision recipe.
- Configuring a deployment and perfoming our first deploy.

First, [install the Deployer](installation.md):

Now lets cd into the project and run the following command:

```sh
dep init
```

Deployer will ask you a few question and after finishing you will have a
**deploy.php** or **deploy.yaml** file. This is our deployment recipe.
It contains hosts, tasks and requires other recipes. All framework recipes
that come with Deployer are based on the [common](recipe/common.md) recipe.

## Provision

:::note
If you already have a configured webserver you may skip to
[deployment](#deploy).
:::

Let's create a new VPS on Linode, DigitalOcean, Vultr, AWS, GCP, etc.

Make sure the image is **Ubuntu 20.04 LTS** as this version is supported via
Deployer [provision](recipe/provision.md) recipe.

:::tip
Configure Reverse DNS or RDNS on your server. This will allow you to ssh into
server using the domain name instead of the IP address.
:::

Our **deploy.php** recipe contains a host definition with few important params:

- `remote_user` user's name for ssh connection,
- `deploy_path` host's path where we are going to deploy.

Let's set `remote_user` to be `deployer`. Right now our new server probably only has the `root` user. The provision recipe will 
create and configure a `deployer` user for us.

```php
host('example.org')
    ->set('remote_user', 'deployer')
    ->set('deploy_path', '~/example');
```

To connect to the remote host we need to specify an identity key or private key.
We can add our identity key directly into the host definition, but it's better to put it
in the **~/.ssh/config** file:

```
Host *
  IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

Now let's provision our server. As our host doesn't have user `deployer`,
we are going to override `remote_user` for provision via `-o remote_user=root`.

```sh
dep provision -o remote_user=root
```

:::tip
If your server doesn't have a `root` user but your remote user can use `sudo` to
become root, then use:

```sh
dep provision -o become=root
```

:::

Deployer will ask you a few questions during provisioning: php version,
database type, etc. Next Deployer will configure our server and create
the `deployer` user. Provision takes around **5 minutes** and will install
everything we need to run a website. A new website will be configured
at [deploy_path](recipe/common.md#deploy_path).

After we have configured the webserver, let's deploy the project.

## Deploy

To deploy the project:

```sh
dep deploy
```

If deploy failed, Deployer will print an error message and which command was unsuccessful.
Most likely we need to configure the correct database credentials in _.env_ file or similar.

Ssh to the host, for example, for editing _.env_ file:

```sh
dep ssh
```

After everything is configured properly we can resume our deployment from the
place it stopped. However, this is not required; we can just start a new deploy:

```
dep deploy --start-from deploy:migrate
```

After our first successful deployment, we can find the following directory structure on our server:

```
~/example                      // The deploy_path.
 |- current -> releases/1      // Symlink to the current release.
 |- releases                   // Dir for all releases.
    |- 1                       // Actual files location.
       |- ...
       |- .env -> shared/.env  // Symlink to shared .env file.
 |- shared                     // Dirs for shared files between releases.
    |- ...
    |- .env                    // Example: shared .env file.
 |- .dep                       // Deployer configuration files.
```

Configure you webserver to serve the `current` directory. For example, for nginx:

```
root /home/deployer/example/current/public;
index index.php;
location / {
    try_files $uri $uri/ /index.php?$query_string;
}
```

If you're using provision recipe, Deployer will automatically configure the Caddy
webserver to serve from the [public_path](/docs/recipe/provision/website.md#public_path).

Now let's add a build step on our host:

```php
task('build', function () {
    cd('{{release_path}}');
    run('npm install');
    run('npm run prod');
});

after('deploy:update_code', 'build');
```

Deployer has a useful task for examining what is currently deployed.

```
$ dep releases
task releases
+---------------------+--------- deployer.org -------+--------+-----------+
| Date (UTC)          | Release     | Author         | Target | Commit    |
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+--------+-----------+
| 2021-11-05 14:00:22 | 1 (current) | Anton Medvedev | HEAD   | 943ded2be |
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+--------+-----------+
```

:::tip
During development, the [dep push](recipe/deploy/push.md) task maybe useful.
:::

Commit message:

Added a note about missing ssh-option. Fixes issue deployphp/deployer#2908

docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

In this tutorial we will cover:

- Setting up a new host with provision recipe.
- Configuring a deployment and perfoming our first deploy.

First, [install the Deployer](installation.md):

Now lets cd into the project and run the following command:

```sh
dep init
```

Deployer will ask you a few question and after finishing you will have a
**deploy.php** or **deploy.yaml** file. This is our deployment recipe.
It contains hosts, tasks and requires other recipes. All framework recipes
that come with Deployer are based on the [common](recipe/common.md) recipe.

## Provision

:::note
If you already have a configured webserver you may skip to
[deployment](#deploy).
:::

Let's create a new VPS on Linode, DigitalOcean, Vultr, AWS, GCP, etc.

Make sure the image is **Ubuntu 20.04 LTS** as this version is supported via
Deployer [provision](recipe/provision.md) recipe.

:::tip
Configure Reverse DNS or RDNS on your server. This will allow you to ssh into
server using the domain name instead of the IP address.
:::

Our **deploy.php** recipe contains a host definition with few important params:

- `remote_user` user's name for ssh connection,
- `deploy_path` host's path where we are going to deploy.

Let's set `remote_user` to be `deployer`. Right now our new server probably only has the `root` user. The provision recipe will 
create and configure a `deployer` user for us.

```php
host('example.org')
    ->set('remote_user', 'deployer')
    ->set('deploy_path', '~/example');
```

To connect to the remote host we need to specify an identity key or private key.
We can add our identity key directly into the host definition, but it's better to put it
in the **~/.ssh/config** file:

```
Host *
  IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

Now let's provision our server. As our host doesn't have user `deployer`,
we are going to override `remote_user` for provision via `-o remote_user=root`.

```sh
dep provision -o remote_user=root
```

:::tip
If your server doesn't have a `root` user but your remote user can use `sudo` to
become root, then use:

```sh
dep provision -o become=root
```

:::

Deployer will ask you a few questions during provisioning: php version,
database type, etc. Next Deployer will configure our server and create
the `deployer` user. Provision takes around **5 minutes** and will install
everything we need to run a website. A new website will be configured
at [deploy_path](recipe/common.md#deploy_path).

After we have configured the webserver, let's deploy the project.

## Deploy

To deploy the project:

```sh
dep deploy
```

If deploy failed, Deployer will print an error message and which command was unsuccessful.
Most likely we need to configure the correct database credentials in _.env_ file or similar.

Ssh to the host, for example, for editing _.env_ file:

```sh
dep ssh
```

:::tip
If your webserver is using OpenSSH lower than v7.6, updating the code may fail with the error
message `unsupported option "accept-new".` In this case, override the Git SSH command with:
```php
set('git_ssh_command', 'ssh');
```
:::

After everything is configured properly we can resume our deployment from the
place it stopped. However, this is not required; we can just start a new deploy:

```
dep deploy --start-from deploy:migrate
```

After our first successful deployment, we can find the following directory structure on our server:

```
~/example                      // The deploy_path.
 |- current -> releases/1      // Symlink to the current release.
 |- releases                   // Dir for all releases.
    |- 1                       // Actual files location.
       |- ...
       |- .env -> shared/.env  // Symlink to shared .env file.
 |- shared                     // Dirs for shared files between releases.
    |- ...
    |- .env                    // Example: shared .env file.
 |- .dep                       // Deployer configuration files.
```

Configure you webserver to serve the `current` directory. For example, for nginx:

```
root /home/deployer/example/current/public;
index index.php;
location / {
    try_files $uri $uri/ /index.php?$query_string;
}
```

If you're using provision recipe, Deployer will automatically configure the Caddy
webserver to serve from the [public_path](/docs/recipe/provision/website.md#public_path).

Now let's add a build step on our host:

```php
task('build', function () {
    cd('{{release_path}}');
    run('npm install');
    run('npm run prod');
});

after('deploy:update_code', 'build');
```

Deployer has a useful task for examining what is currently deployed.

```
$ dep releases
task releases
+---------------------+--------- deployer.org -------+--------+-----------+
| Date (UTC)          | Release     | Author         | Target | Commit    |
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+--------+-----------+
| 2021-11-05 14:00:22 | 1 (current) | Anton Medvedev | HEAD   | 943ded2be |
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+--------+-----------+
```

:::tip
During development, the [dep push](recipe/deploy/push.md) task maybe useful.
:::
